PREREQUISITES

INITIAL SETUP

    The very first thing to do is get an account at www.discogs.com
    and get an API key (http://www.discogs.com/users/api_key).
    You need to complete this step before completing any of the following.

    Then run the script 'setup' with the command

        ./setup

    'setup' installs some necessary directories under the root directory
    '~/.what/'. The 'setup' script also installs the What configuration
    file '~/.whatrc'. This file needs to be personalized before installation.

    Open the new file '~/.whatrc' in a tex editor and fill it out
    with your preferences. Here is an explanation of the most important
    required fields:

        passkey: This is your What.CD account's torrent passkey,
            not your password and not your IRC passkey.
            Your passkey can be found on your profile page in the
            'Personal' side-box near your account email.

        discogs_api_key: This is mentioned at the beginning of the 
            document. The API key is required for interacting with
            www.discogs.com, and checking for the prescence of
            your uploads.

        rip_dir: This is where you should rip FLAC files to, 
            and prepare rips before converting/uploading them.

        upload_dir: All you're uploaded torrents and their data
            are categorized inside the upload directory.

    Next, perl dependencies need to be installed.

PERL DEPENDENCIES

    What requires these non-standard modules and libraries from the CPAN:

        Getopt::Euclid
        Exception::Class
        Class::InsideOut
        LWP::UserAgent
        Moose
        Term::Readline
        Data::Dumper
        MP3::Tag
        Audio::FLAC::Header
        XML::Twig

    The easiest way to get all these dependencies is to install the CPAN
    module. You can get the latest version from the following link:

        http://search.cpan.org/~andk/CPAN/lib/CPAN.pm

    Read the CPAN documentation about installing modules (it's really
    easy).

PROGRAM DEPENDENCIES

    The What scripts also require free, cross-platform, external programs. 
    Specifically,

        lame                             (MP3 reencoding)
        vorbis-tools (with FLAC support) (OGG reencoding)
        faac                             (AAC reencoding)
        flac                             (FLAC stream decoding)
        mktorrent                        (making torrent files)
        spek (command-line binary)       (viewing spectrograms)

    The 'flac' dependency is required for reencoding to any other format.
    and 

    But, if you don't need any of these functional areas, 
    then you don't need to install the dependencies. 

    The 'vorbis-tools' dependency must be compiled with flac support.
    If compiling from source, read documentation about this option.
    If installing vorbis-tools via a package manager. Look into the 
    package managers documentation for variants/patches which will install
    a package with flac support. If you are installing vorbis-tools on Mac 
    OS X with macports, the following command installs vorbis-tools properly:

        sudo port install vorbis-tools +flac

INSTALLATION

    You need to have your '~/.whatrc' file in place before continuing
    (see PREREQUISITES). At the minimum, you must have copied the template
    into place. The values of the config variables don't need to be set 
    correctly before testing the module, but some value has to be defined.

    Currently, the program dependencies don't need to be installed intall after
    the installation. But you will need them to do just about anything once
    the program is installed.

    To install this module and its included scripts, type the following:

        perl Makefile.PL
        make
        make test
        make install

    Alternatively, to install the module to a directory other than '/usr/local',
    say '~/local' use this set of commands:

        perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=~/local
        make
        make test
        make install

CROSS-PLATFORM COMPATABILITY

    So far, this package has only been extensively tested on Mac OS X. It
    should also work with minimal difficulty on most Linux
    distributions. There is an issue where the OS X utility 'open' is 
    called. Linux has no standard utitily for opening arbitrary files. 
    Under Gnome, gnome-open can perform a similar task. The situation is
    not ideal and should eventually disappear. But for now, snatch-inspect
    and release-import will not work under Linux. I will try to make a patch
    to allow these programs to work under gnome in the future.

    I highly doubt that it will work on Microsoft Windows. Some kind MS Perl
    hacker would need to come along and fix things that cause problems.

